[BLANK_AUDIO] In this course, we're going to talk a lot
about different tools and techniques to help you make your
work reproducible. And now, before we get into all that,
though, I just want to kind of boil down the basic principle that we want
to deal with throughout this whole course. I mean, if there's one rule that I think
we would, you would want to adhere to, to make your work as
reproducible as possible is that you should script
everything. Scripting is really important and it's the
basic idea of writing everything down. Back in the old days you might have
written down, you know, things down on paper or in lab
notebooks. But now that we have more sophisticated
computers and we can program them, we write things down as pr,
as scripts or programs. So I mean, if you, as, just by way of
analogy. You think about you think about a great
symphony or a great piece of music. You think of if you, if you imagine just hearing the
melody of a piece of music, okay? That's very interesting, it's also can be
very beautiful. But often, if you look at a symphony,
there's a whole orchestra. There's a whole set of musicians that are
kind of backing up the melody. And doing a lot of work and all that work
is really important and contributes to the texture, contributes to the, the kind
of feel of the whole piece of music, right? So if you been out and if you were just
hear a symphony it probably would be difficult
for you to reproduce that sound even if you could hire your own orchestra because you wouldn't know
where all the notes were, what all the, all the different instruments were playing at any
given time. That even if you heard it a few times, you saw, probably still wouldn't be able
to do it. And you, in particular you would
definitely not be able to reproduce that sound if you were to only
hear the melody, right? So, if you think about the presentation of
of an analysis or of your research [COUGH] the
presentation is really kind of like, like hearing the melody
alone, right? The melody is really nice, it's really
important. But it's, there's all this supporting
material that, that's going on behind the scenes. All the, the analyses that you did, all
the exploratory work, all of the, kind of, dead ends that you
went down, all the decisions that you made in your analysis,
which are not presented in your, kind of, final presentation, whether
it's a paper or a oral presentation. But they're all very important. So those are the supporting players, all right? So just like in music in research we need
a way to kind of write down everything that we did,
everything that's going on right? So in music this is typically called the
score, right? So the score is, is, is a way to kind of
write down in musical notation all the different
things that are being played. All the different things that are going
on. All the notes, all the rhythms. All the timings, all the instruments,
everything. And so someone can look at the score and say okay, well I need to put together all
these things and I, every- ever- people have to play at
different times and different locations. And so it's a way to, for you to reproduce a piece of music as accurately
as possible. And, and musicians have kind of, have
come, have agreed upon a standard way to write down
music. And a standard notation for doing that. And so this course is essentially about,
you know, defining and developing the notation
of specifying a re, a research project or a data
analysis. Right, so what is the, how do we write
down what the what are the things that we did, how did we talk about
exactly what was analyzed, what was done. And so the way that we do that essentially
is through scripting, right? We write down computer programs. We talk, we we give instructions to the
computer and tell it what to do at any, at any given time with what
type of data. And so the main rule for anything you in data analysis is to
write a script. And the more you can do that and the less
you can kind of do things by, on your own, by hand without writing it down,
the better and the more reproducible your work
will be. So this, so these computer programs, these
scripts that we write. These are like the score for your data
analysis. They tell someone else who's trying to
reproduce your work exactly what happened and what
to do. So, if you want to get a sense of what it
means to script something. You can just load up Rstudio.
And when you load it up, you'll see that
there's, that you, the first thing you can do is you can open an
R script. So, here we do that and this is just a
blank text file. And then you can start writing R code in
here. And then you'll be writ-, you'll be
programming, you'll be telling the you know, R what to do in terms of a
coding language, right? So this is your, this, this is the, the
easiest way to get started scripting. Is to u, is to load up something like
Rstudio and, and, and use the text editor that's built in. So, in this course we'll talk about a
bunch of other tools things like Nader, things like Markdown that'll
help you kind of, organize your analyses. But the bottom line is, to write it down,
write a script, write a program, and make your
work reproducible.