This is the lecture on the basics of
markdown. So markdown is just a text file that's
formatted in a very specific and simple way that
sites like GitHub and also R and R Studio can
recognize and can be used to do a lot of different
things. You'll learn a lot more about markdown in later courses, for example, the
reproducible research course. But for the purposes of being able to deal
with GitHub, this is also, I'm just going to give you really
the basics right now on markdown. So the first thing that you want to be
able to do and so it's just a text file that
you're editing. And the extension for the text file is
.md. So you're going to create a file that's for example readme.mda that's a
markdown file. The first thing that you're going to do is
create headings. So, for example, if you do the double
pound like this, followed by some text it will create
a heading for a secondary heading. So what will, what will happen is if you
upload a .md file, say for example to GitHub, if you use two pound
signs and then followed by some text. You'll end up seeing that the get
interpreted by GitHub as a heading. So slightly larger, more bold text. You can also create smaller headings by
using a triple ha, or triple pound sign then. And then typing this is a tertiary
heading. And you'll see that GitHub interprets that
as a slightly smaller heading size. The other thing that you can do with,
Markdown in addition to typing just plain paragraphs is that you
can create lists very easily. So, for example, if you type, is, this
star, and they you type first item in the list, asterisk, second
item in the list, so forth. You'll get an unordered list, in other
words a list with dots, starting at the beginning,
nicely formatted by GitHub. And so, those are the two basic things
that you need to know right now. You can use headings, and you can use
lists to sort of organize your file. And then you can just type plain
paragraphs as well. If you want to [UNKNOWN], know a lot more
about markdown, you can try out this link right here or if once you've
installed Rstudio, you can actually click the button, there's an MD button
right in the middle of the screen, that if you click on that, you'll
get a quick guide to markdown. And so you will don't need R Markdown or any of the more technical details, until
you get to reproducible research, but this will be
useful, in terms of putting sum into your first few
directories on GitHub.