Welcome to the Johns Hopkins Data Science
Track. I'm incredibly excited to tell you a
little bit about the track and about where you're going to be going
over the next nine months. My name is Jeff Leek, and I'm a professor in the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of
Public Health. I thought I'd lead off this introductory
video with a quote by one of my favorite US Presidents,
Teddy Roosevelt. He said it's not the critic who counts. It's not the person who points out how the
person who's actually doing things is doing them
wrong or messing up. It's the person who's actually trying to
get things done, even when there are obstacles in the
way. And a lot of data science right now is
being able to push through a lot of the difficulties that you have when you're dealing with either large or messy
data. It includes collecting the data clean them
up and then building new announced techniques that
exploring new information about that data. And so, all of those steps are a little
bit complicated and sometimes it opens you to criticism when you're trying to do something new and
interesting. And so I wanted to lead with a quote that
said it's important to strive the valiantly do these sorts of things, even if you're going to take some
criticism. So the key challenge in data science is
actually really nicely summed up in this quote by
Dan Myer. He says, ask yourselves, what problem you,
have you ever solved, ever, that was worth solving, where you knew all of
the given information in advance? Where you didn't have a surplus of
information and have to filter some of it out, or you didn't have insufficient
information and have to go find some? And so, I think that this is a kind of a
critical quote because, in data science, this is
usually what is going on. You're either in a situation where you
really don't have enough data to answer the question that
you're interested in, and you have to go out and try to search for
it, find it on the web, or find it in other
places. Or you're in a situation where you are
overwhelmed with a surplus of data and you have to filter out all of the irrelevant information to try to narrow in on your
question. And you'll notice that I said question in
both of those cases. And I think this goes to the heart of our
philosophy about data science. We're interested in answering questions
with data. We think the question should come first
and then the data should follow after. And that actually makes it more
challenging, because sometimes, you can answer a
question with some data but you might not be able to
answer your question with some data. So this track is about refocusing on
answering the question that you're interested in solving with the
data that you have. So I thought I'd tell you a little bit
about the instructors that you'll be hearing from throughout the
course of this, course track. So we are all faculty in the Johns Hopkins Blumberg School of Public Health in the
Biostatistics Department. And you could say that we all do data intensive statistics in biology
and medicine. Brian Caffo works on the statistics of
brain, analyzing brain imaging data. And I work on the statistics of analyzing
genomics data. And Roger Peng works on the statistics of
analyzing fine particulate matter. All of us work on problems where the data aren't always clean and nice and easy to
handle. All of us work on problems where the
questions that we want to answer are complicated and you have to
break them down into parts. And all of us, sort of, work on questions
where we're very passionate about trying to get the right answer so that we
can help people in human health. But the techniques that you're going to be learning about are not exclusive to
biology and medicine. That's just one area where there's been a recent upsurge in the amount of data
that's available. So why data science? Why should you take this program? This is a cover of The Economist now. It's a little bit old I guess ancient
history from a couple of years ago. But it talks about the data deluge and
it's really true. Over the last several years data has
become much, much cheaper to collect. It's much easier to store. And there's so many free computing tools
out there right now, that you can actually do something with this entire data deluge
that's sort of assaulting all different areas of
science and business. So the other thing is that you've probably
heard the term big data. And so we'll hear a little bit more about
what we think about big data throughout the course of this particular course, the Data
Scientist's Toolbox. But big data is, sort of a new frontier in
the sense that, we have data in areas that we didn't used
to have that data. We didn't have access to information about
GPS coordinates from cars from everybody in
the entire world. It wasn't possible to sequence everybody's
genome. And now that's all possible. So we have access to this data and it allows us to answer questions we never
could before. So, it's an incredibly exciting time, and
you're somebody who can get in there and use that data to answer
those questions. So why statistical data science? You'll notice that we're, all of your instructors are biostatistics professors
and so this will, this data science track will
obviously have a little bit of a statistical bend. I think that that's appropriate given that statistics is the science of learning from
data. So, data is very, very, it's very rare
that you'll get a data set where all of the answers are really
clear, and there's no uncertainty. In any case where there is uncertainty, that's where statistics comes and plays a
role. So, this is a again, a little bit older
New York Times article now, but it talks about
how the key word for a lot of graduates to open
the door for a lot of jobs, is to learn about
statistics. So why are you lucky? You're lucky because this moment, right
now, in time is sort of like the moment that Jeff Bezos
discovered the internet. He got into building a internet company at
the time when there was this explosive growth
in internet usage and it just opened the door for the opportunity to build something amazing and
huge and wonderful. And sort of, that's the right, that's what
the time is right now for data. It sort of there's an explosive growth of data in every possible area you can
imagine. And so it's the opportunity right now to
sort of jump on a rocket and, and find out something interesting, and, and
sort of carry it off into a, a really major
endeavor. You're also lucky because tools and
competitions and websites have all been developed around
the idea of helping to learn about data, but also
getting involved in projects that have super high
profile results. So, one example is the Heritage Health
Prize, which I'm showing you a picture of here. The Heritage Health Prize was a $3 million contest for people who could analyze data
and come up with a better predictor of who would be admitted to a hospital in another
year. So you can see that's a huge amount of
money that's being invested in these ideas of algorithm development and data science of
prediction. So it gives you an exciting opportunity to
get involved in projects that, sort of, weren't happening
five or ten years ago. This course track will focus almost
exclusively on the use of the R programming language. And so I thought it was appropriate to
talk a little bit about why we like R so much. So we like R obviously, because we all use
it. But it's also sort of increasingly the most commonly used language for data
science. There are other languages that are also
very useful. And we won't be talking about them a lot
in this course but they're obviously good
complements to the R programming language. Like, Python, in this class we'll be
focusing on R because it has a broad range of packages that
allow you to go from the rawest of raw files, all the way
to interactive reports and documents and web apps that you can share
with your collaborators. So, some more reasons why we might use r
is because it's free, it has a comprehensive set of packages, like I
mentioned, for all the processes that are involved in
data science. It has one of the best development environments of any programming language,
in our studio. It also has an amazing ecosystem of
developers. And what I mean by that is there are a lot of people that are developing our
packages. And they're also available to get in touch
with on mailing lists or by email or on stack
overflow. And so it's really possible to learn about the cutting edge of packages that are
being developed. There also very easy to install and play
nicely together, which is a, a feature that doesn't always happen in a lot of the
languages that are used for data science. So the next thing I thought I would
mention is, who is a data scientist? So, we're going to be talking about data
science a lot. And I thought I'd mention that some people
that I think are data scientists, that might not, either label themselves that
way or have other people label them that way. So the first is Daryl Morey, who'd the
general manager of the Houston Rockets basketball
team in the US. So he uses data to analyze basketball players and transactions and
making trades. And so I would consider him to be a data
scientist Because he's a person who uses data to
answer questions about basketball. Another data scientist that you may, or
may not, have heard of, is Hilary Mason. So, she used to be the Chief, Data Scientist at Bentley, and now she's at
Accel Partners. And so, she uses data to answer all sorts
of questions about mining the web, and understanding that way that
humans interact with each other through social
media. So, again she might not label herself a
data scientist, but I think the way that she
uses data, is a evocative of the sort of ideas, that we would like to convey in this data
sciences track. If you're taking this course, you probably
know who Daphne Koller is. She's the CEO of Coursera. But she's also another person who's using
all the data they're collecting through Coursera
to better, to improve the way that we do educational delivery
and educational assessment at this huge scale that
Coursera is providing. And finally, Nate Silver is one of the
most famous data scientists, or statisticians
in the world today. So he used a large amount of totally free
public data to make predictions about who would win elections
in the United States, and was remarkably
accurate. I'm going to finish with him, as the da-,
as the last data scientist I'm going to
illustrate because it's so amazing that he could use public free data and create
such an amazing product that so many people read about,
and are excited about. So our goal is to teach you about a bunch
different skills that will be useful for you as a
data scientist. So, this is a Venn Diagram and some
statisticians and data scientists don't like Venn Diagrams but I'm going to
get, show you one anyway. And so, this Venn Diagram has Data Science
at the, sort of, the center of this Venn diagram that
intersects several different skills. So, if you look right here there's data science and it involves three
different components. There's hacking skills, there's math and statistics knowledge, and there's
substantive expertise. And so our data science track will focus a
little bit on each of these, but it will primarily focus on math and statistics knowledge and hacking
skills. And so math and statistics knowledge sort
of speaks for itself. We're going to teach you a little bit about math and a little bit about
statistics. Hacking skills involves two different
components. One thing is we're going to teach you a
little bit about computer programming or at least
computer programming with R, which will allow you to access
data and play around with it and analyze it,
plot it. But hacking skills also has another
component to it which is the ability to go out and answer
questions for yourself. One key component of a data scientist job
right now is that most of the answers aren't already
outlined in the textbook. This is all new stuff that's happening. So what are the major skills of being a data scientist is being to go to Google,
and go to Stack Overflow, and go to one of the
other sites and look up what you need to learn and figure out what answers you
know and what answers you don't know, and then
figuring out how you can use the information you
have to answer the question that you'd like to
answer. So another reason obviously is jobs. That might be the reason you're taking
this course track. And so you can see this is a plot of
listings are for data science jobs over time and of
course it's exploding. And we'll talk a little bit about why you
shouldn't extrapolate, necessarily, from your data forever, but
it does suggest that data science is a hot area that's growing and I
think obviously we're very excited about it and hope
you're excited about it too. So this course, Data Scientist's Toolbox,
will continue with lectures on the following
three things. First, we're going to introduce you to the
course track. Then we're going to tell you a little bit
about getting the tools that you need to get set up and get installed,
hopefully get you over that hump. And then we're going to give you the basic background on data science sort of
writ large, so that you'll be ready to jump into any of the individual classes and really
take off. Looking forward to seeing you in the rest
of the class.