This is a brief follow-up video to getting
help and it's about finding answers. The reason why there are two videos about
this is because it's such a critical skill in
data science. So you can see one of the three
fundamental sort of, skills you see in the Venn diagram here is
Hacking Skills. And the reason why it's one of the three fundamental skill is because almost
of none of the knowledge that you will need is already sort of set in standardized text
books. It's often scattered in a bunch of
different places and you have to be able to sort of synthesize it or find the
information that you need about. Whether it's about which data set you need
to be using, or the statistical analysis you need to be doing, or the R Package
that you need to be using. All of this is sort of scattered around,
and you have to be willing to do a little bit of hard work and elbow
grease to find it yourself. Obviously we'll tell you as much as we can in lectures, but we're necessarily limited
by the amount of time that we can lecture every week, and
so it's important to be able to find that
information yourself. So key, some key characteristics packers
are that they're willing to go out and find the
answers on their own even if it takes a little bit
of time or a little bit of effort. They're knowledgeable about where to find
those answers whether its Google, or stack over glow, or
cat. Cross validated or a message fo history of
mailing lists. They're unintimidated by new data types or
packages. It's very common as a data scientist to be
thrown a new kind of data or a new kind of Our package that you
need to learn very quickly to be able to analyze the data to being
unintimidated by that is important and then being unafraid to say that you
don't know the answer to a question. And so a key characteristic I would say
the way to summarize it up is being alive but
relentless here. Going after the answer and you just trying
to find it But you're very polite while doing
it. And so Google knows this too. In their hiring practices they're looking
for these sort of characteristics. The kind of people that will go after
these sorts of things as it's described in this article,
I'm linked to here. [SOUND] So an important question is where to look for, for different types of
questions. So for our programming you might want to
go straight to the the archive of the class
forums. Where the class you're taking will focus
on very specific questions or functions. And there'll be a large group of
interested people. You could read the manual or help files like I showed you in the getting help
lecture. You can search on the web. That's actually one of the best ways to do
it. You can ask a skilled friend. That's even better if you've got a person
that you know that already is a bit of a data
scientist. They can often help you out. And then you can post to the class forums
and try to get your answers. Remember to be specific with your
questions. You can also post to forums outside of the
class. The R Mailing List or Stackoverflow, if
you have R questions. For data analysis or statistics type
questions, you want to go to start again with the class forums, and then go
to the web or to friends. And then there's another outside forum
called CrossValidated where you can ask these types of
questions. Brother software you might have to go to
software specific websites. So forget HUB, they have a lot of
tutorials and nice information that you can use to get
answers there. [SOUND] So an important point to know is
that Googling data science questions isn't always the
easiest thing in the world. So, the best place to start with if you have a pretty general question is often in
the forums. And if people can direct you to where you
should be searching outside of the forums. Keep in mind that Stackoverflow with the
tag R is a really good place to get information
about R. And, so, you have to use this tag because
if you just use the letter R, it obviously is, sometimes,
a little bit hard to search for. You can also try the R mailing list for software questions or CrossValidated
for more general questions. Usually what I've found is that if I'm
going to work in Google, searching Google, I use
usually type something like the data type and then data
analysis or I type the data type and then the R
package. I found that data type R package often
works a little bit better than data type, data
analysis when Googling things. Another thing to keep in mind is that data analysis or data science is often called
something different depending on what kind of data you are looking at, so for example medical data it might be
called biostatistics. For data from the web it might be data
science. For data in computer vision it might be
machine learning or natural language processing for data
from text and so on. So, knowing what the right word to Google
is, is often half the battle. And so, you can often find that out by
posting to forums and people will let you know what the right
word to be googling is. [SOUND] Again the credits for this go to
Roger's Getting Help Video. And it was inspired by Eric Raymond's How
to Ask Questions the Right Way.