This is the first in a series of overview
lectures that tell'll you about the other courses in the
Data Science course track. I'm going to start off with R programming,
which is another one of the most fundamental classes in our
Data Science track. R is the language that we're going to be
using for most of the data analysis and data science that we're going
to be doing on the computer science end. And so R will tell you, the R programming
class will tell you a little bit about data types, about
sub-setting data, reading and writing it from files. How to write functions, to do things to
that data, how to debug them and then a little bit about
simulation and optimization. So now I'm just going to show you a couple
of examples of the sorts of things that you'll learn
in that class. So for example you'll learn about the readLines function for reading text from a
file. So in this case what we're going to be
doing is we're going to be reading lines actually from the website of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of
Public Health. So this is the website right there. And so what we do is we go to that website
and then we use the readLine func, readLines
function to read the text from that site. And then we look at that text and you can
actually see the HTML code, and it's actually been sucked into R that
you can then use to analyze the website. Another thing that you'll be learning
about is how to figure out when there's something wrong
with your function. So, you'll be writing lots of functions in
this class. And so, one thing that you want to know is when they aren't working, why aren't
they working? And so this is a slide that comes from one
of those about how do you figure out, what were you
expecting, and what did you get? And how do you reproduce the problems so that you can figure out how that function
works? Well you'll be leaning things like more
detailed functions. So, for example, this is the lapply
function. And so the lapply function takes a
particular kind of argument. And a list in this case, and applies a
function to all the elements of that list and returns
something back to you. And so, this is interesting because it's
one of the many examples where the actual, sort of, analysis is actually
being done internally in C code. But you don't actually have to access to
that. You can actually just use the R function. So this will cover everything from sort of the basics, to more complicated functions
like lapply. And set you up very nicely for the rest of
the course sequence.