Since you're in a data science track, it
might be a good idea to figure out what is data. So, for a definition of data we're
going to go to the number one source of all
information, Wikipedia. And, we're going to get the definition,
data are values of qualitative or quantitative variables,
belonging to a set of items. So, the first thing that you can see from this definition is that you need a set of
items to be measuring things on and so, the set of items is sometimes called the
population, in statistical inference. It's basically, what you're trying to
discover something about, so, it might be the set of all websites or it
might be the set of all people coming to
websites, or it might be, a set of all people getting a
particular drug. But in general, it's a set of things that
you're going to make measurements on. Variables are measurements or
characteristics of an item. So, they might be measurements as in, you measure the height of a person, or you
measure the amount of time a person stays on a website, or they might be more
qualitative characteristics. So it might be the places that the person
looks on the website or Whether that you think the person
visiting is a man or a woman. And so you, have both qualitative and
quantitative variables. So qualitative variables are things like
country of origin, sex, or treatment. They're not necessarily ordered, and
they're not necessarily measurements in that way. Quantitative measurements on the other
hand are usually Measured on a continuous scale, they're things like
height, weight and blood pressure. And, they usually have an ordering on that
scale. So, what do data look like? So, you might think in your mind, when I
say data, it's something like a big excel table, or something like that, but,
actually, most data actually starts off in a very raw
form. So, this is an example of a fast queue
file, which is a type of file that's produced by a next
generation sequencing machine. So, a typical experiment will produce
hundreds of millions of lines of text file that look like this. And so, you can actually see here in this
file, you can actually see a sequence here, of a particular read
that comes from a person's genome. And so, what you want to be able to do is
parse that file, and collect those data, and maybe
infer something about their genome. Another way the data might look is an API. So this is actually a picture of the
Twitt, Twitter API website. And so, what you might do is you might try
to get a particular URL. So you might try to access that URL and
get information from it. And what you would get back is something
like this, which is a structured form of data,
that isn't necessarily something you would see in
Excel cloud, but it's, a structured form of data that you might
get back. Here's an example of a medical record. So, this is again another form of data. People are very interested in studying
medical records, and trying to understand how people can
either improve the way that we insure people or improve the way that we give people
medical care. And so, these data again are text files
that, are not necessarily formatted in a very
nice way. So what you might want to be able to do is Do things like extract the allergy name
from this text file. Or subtract or extract with different
things were ordered and so forth, and then use that data to maybe
answer some questions. Data might also be a video, so in this particular case machine learning
experts developed an algorithm that could learn whether a video
was a cat, or a video was something else. It seems like kind of a trivial
application. It's actually quite a hard problem And
they solved. But in this particular case, the data were
actually the videos themselves. They're stills from the video themselves. Data might also be an audio file. So this is an example, DarwinTunes, where people actually study the evolution of
music over time, where people decided whether,
innovations introduced into the audio file were interesting or
not. So, overtime they evolved music that was
more melodious and more interesting for people
to listen to. So, the data itself was actually the audio
files in this study. Data might also look like access to files,
whether through an API or through spreadsheets
through open government websites. So, for example, data.gov has a lot of
data sets that might be accessible, and those data sites might
be in any number of formats, from very simple to tab or comma
separated files, to excel files, to something that's much more
complicated and messy like RAW text files. Rarely do data look exactly like what
you'd expected to see at, at the beginning of a data science
project. So, here's a very clear easy data set
where you've got variables and columns, and
observations in rows. And it seems like it's very easy to
analyze. It's very rare that the data come that easily processed before the beginning of a
study. So, the data are actually the second most
important thing in data science. The most important thing, in in data
science is actually the question you're trying to
answer. So, the data should follow that question. It's the second most important thing to
the question. Often the data will limit, or enable the
questions you're trying to ask, so in other words, you start with the
question, and you might not have the data to be able to answer that question,
so you have to modify the question, to be able to answer, sort of a
sub-question or a related question. But having data in general, can't save you if you don't have a question that you're
asking. And this is [INAUDIBLE] of the key take
home message, maybe the theme of this data scientist
toolbox, is focusing on having a question that you want to answer
with your data and not being driven by the fact that you
have data.