Welcome to the course Practical Machine
Learning. This is one of the funnest classes in the
Data Science specialization. I'm very excited about all the ways you
can use date to predict, and I think it's one of the areas that's probably the most
sort of well known when you think about Data
Science. This first lecture is going to cover the motivation and pre-requisites for the
course and give you a little bit of idea about where
we're going to be going. So this course will cover the basic ideas of machine learning and prediction,
and our goal is to be very practical and very hands on with our understanding of machine
learning. And so the idea here is that we're going
to cover the main techniques that lots of people use
and that you've maybe heard about. Linear regression and random forests and
things like that, but we're also going to cover sort of the nitty-gritty details and the practicalities of doing machine learning
and real examples. And, so, we've got to start off with ideas
of, like, study design, so training versus test sets, and deciding how do you
actually build up a predictor in a real data set. Then we'll talk about conceptual issues
like out of sample error and over fitting, so you might have heard
of the fact that some models are maybe a little tuned
to the noise and that so it won't predict well on a new
sample. And so we'll talk about how do you sort of
prevent those sorts of problems. We'll also talk about things like ROC
curves or methods for evaluating predictors for deciding whether
a predictor's any good or not. And we're going to be focusing a lot on
the practical implementation of these machine learning algorithms and also
these more conceptual issues in R. And we're going to be using the caret
package for a large majority of that. The caret package is a nice unifying
framework for a lot of machine learning packages that
exist in R. Those packages were built by a lot of
different people, and they have different parameters and different
choices that have been made by their developers. And the caret package is sort of a nice
unifying framework for that. This course does depend quite heavily on
the tools that you've learned in the data
scientist's toolbox and in R Programming, so if you haven't taken
those classes already, they're highly encouraged
before taking this class. It'll also be useful if you've taken
exploratory data analysis, reporting data and reproducible
research, and regression models. Those classes aren't required, but, a lot
of the material that we'll cover in this class will, be related
to that picture, so if you've seen it before, it might be a
little bit, easier on you if you go through the
material in this class. So who predicts things? This is an important question. I think an important motivator for this
class. Basically, most organizations now use
machine learning in some simple form or minimum and often in much more
complicated forms. So here are a couple of examples. Local governments might try to predict
pension payments in the future so that they know whether their revenue generation
mechanisms have sufficient, funds, generated to cover
those pension payments. Google might want to predict whether
you're going to click on an ad so that they can show you only the ads that, are most likely to get clicks, and so it'll
increase revenue. Amazon and Netflix and other companies
like that will show you one movie and they want you to buy the
next movie. In order to do that they want to show you
what you may be interested in. Movies that you have seen this one movie,
so you might be interested in these other movies, so they can kind of keep you watching and again increase
revenue. Insurance companies employ large groups of
actuary and statisticians to try to predict your risk of all sorts of different things, including death so
they can know what's the right price to set insurance
premiums at. And then please select Johns Hopkins where
I work will also want to predict who's going to
succeed in their programs. So which students that have applied to our program will be most likely to be
successful. All of these different prediction, tasks
are preformed by a variety of different organizations, and
they're preformed at different levels. So some of them are very complicated. Predicting which ad you might click on
might have a whole bunch of predictors, and it might be based on quiet
a complicated machine learning algorithm. In some cases, it might be a lot simpler
in terms of what you're trying to predict. And so, either way, it's an important component of basically every major
organization these days. So why would you predict things? Well, one is glory. Here's a picture of Chris Volinsky. He's a member of the team that won the
Netflix Prize. The Netflix Prize was a million dollar
prize that was given out to a teen that could reduce
the error that Netflix was making when they
were trying to predict which new movie somebody might be
interested in seeing. So Chris was a member of a large
organization of multiple teams that blended their models together, and they
predicted the best and won the prize. It's actually kind of a, a fascinating
story about how that happened. And so, of course, they all got a lot of
sort of nerd credit and a lot of glory for
winning these competitions. And so that's one way, reason you might be excited about being good at machine
learning. You might also be excited because you can,
there's money in it. So not only through organizations where
you can earn a lot of money if you know how to best predict which ads people will
click on and so forth but even in these
competitions. So, for example, this is the heritage
health prize. And so this was a $3 million prize to the
team that could best predict who would be admitted
to the hospital in a year. And when you were trying to do this
prediction, you would use information about the
previous hospitalizations from previous years, and nobody actually won
three million dollars but people did win quite a bit of money from this prize over in the sort of the interim prizes, and so people actually
both make money through the competitions, but they also
spun off analytics companies and organizations based on their
performance in these competitions. In general, it's, it's now kind of a
sport. Data science is a sport, particularly in
terms of prediction. And so these are, this organization Kaggle
is one of, many organizations that can host
these competitions where you can try to predict, the outcome of a particular experiment, or you try to
predict all sorts of different things, and these
competitions often run for a certain fixed period of
time and often have a lot, of, of a little bit
of money on the line as well. So, it can be a lot of fun, and there's a
ranking and a leaderboard, so you can kind of get into
the fun of the competition. This is a little closer to my area of
research, so you might also predict for, the purposes of doing sort of better
medical decision making and so Oncotype DX is a prognostic gene expression signature that
can be measured in women who have breast cancer, and it can be used to predict how long they'll survive, given a set of conditions that
they have. So that can be useful for medical doctors when making decisions about patients with
breast cancer. This is a book that I find very useful. Its a little bit advanced for this class,
although a lot of the tools are incredibly useful
still. It's called the Elements of Statistical
Learning, and so this is a book that's actually, you can get a free copy of the PDF from the
author's website, so that's very nice. But if you do really like the book, I
encourage you to buy it as well. The author's put a lot of effort on, into
it, and it's a great book, and so it could be very useful in terms of having a lot of information that we'll cover in
this class. And then the package that I think we're
going to be using by far the most in this class is the
caret package. So the caret package combines a very large
number of predictors that have been built in R, and it allows you to
sort of set up training and test sets in a kind of a
unified framework that prevents a lot of the problems that come
up when building prediction models. If you want some more advanced materials,
so one place to go would be the Machine Learning class
from Coursera. And what I mean by advanced material is
sometimes you might be interested in a lot more of the sort of mathematical
detail behind how these algorithms work, or you might be
interested in a lot more of the sort of high level machine learning
algorithms that are on the very cutting edge. And I think this class would be a great
place for you to start learning about those with
some material. This class, like I said, will cover the
basics and will focus on getting you to the point from sort of
zero to 60. And, in other words, it'll get you to the point where you can use machine learning
tools in your day to day, but it won't necessarily
cover all the top level details of machine
learning algorithms. There is actually a huge amount of information available out there on machine
learning. It's a very hot topic right now so so I
listed her a bunch of links that sends you to
information at Quora. It's from Science, from MIT, CMU, and
Kaggle, which will give you a lot of information about how to do
machine learning in a variety of different ways, and so, if this class
whets your appetite and gets you excited about some of these other
things, that'd be great, too.